Inspecting Sitemaps
Web applications can include sitemap files
to help search engine bots
crawl and index their sites.
These files also include directives
of which URLs not to crawl.
These are usually sensitive pages
or administrative consoles
exactly the sort of pages we are interested in.
The two most common sitemap filenames
are robots.txt and sitemap.xml.
For example, we can retrieve
the robots.txt file from
www.google.com with curl.
Allow and Disallow are
directives for web crawlers
indicating pages or directories that
“polite” web crawlers may
or may not access, respectively.
Although the listed pages and
directories may not be interesting
and some may even be invalid,
sitemap files should not be overlooked
as they may contain clues
about the website layout
or other interesting information.